Temporal Nexus: Deploy to Production - Temporal Cloud & Nexus (#3078)
temporalio/documentation: docs/production-deployment/cloud/nexus/index.mdx

---
id: index
slug: /cloud/nexus
title: Temporal Nexus
description: Discover Temporal Nexus, a powerful feature for connecting durable executions across team, namespace, region, and cloud boundaries. Nexus also enables each team to have their own namespace for improved security, troubleshooting, and blast radius isolation.
sidebar_label: Temporal Nexus 
tags:
  - temporal cloud
  - temporal nexus
keywords:
  - Temporal Nexus
  - cross-namespace workflows
  - modular workflow design
  - workflow orchestration
  - Temporal Cloud security
  - Temporal Cloud services
  - distributed workflows
  - workflow API management
---

:::tip SUPPORT, STABILITY, and DEPENDENCY INFO

Temporal Nexus is in [Public Preview](https://docs.temporal.io/evaluate/development-production-features/release-stages\#public-preview) for Temporal Cloud.

:::

This Temporal Nexus guide covers the following topics:

- [Introduction to Nexus](#nexus-introduction)  
- [Using Nexus](/cloud/nexus/using-nexus)  
- [Pricing](/cloud/nexus/pricing)  
- [Getting Started](/cloud/nexus/getting-started)  
- [Operations](/cloud/nexus/operations)  

## Introduction to Nexus {#nexus-introduction}

> Temporal Nexus is a feature of the Temporal platform designed to connect durable executions across team, Namespace, region, and cloud boundaries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Temporal Nexus is designed to connect durable executions across team, Namespace, region, and cloud boundaries. 
```

> It promotes a more modular architecture for sharing a subset of your team’s capabilities through well-defined service API contracts for other teams to use, that abstract underlying Temporal primitives, like Workflows, or execute arbitrary code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It promotes modular architectures that share your team’s capabilities through well-defined service API contracts for other teams to use.
It abstracts underlying Temporal primitives, like Workflows and Activities, or executes arbitrary code.
```

Author: Yeah this sentence is difficult to read. There eventually will need to be a new intro since we're typically trying to stay away from terms like primitives.

**Why use Temporal Nexus?**

> * Fully integrated Temporal SDK experience:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Temporal Nexus provides:

* A fully integrated Temporal SDK experience:  
```

  * Run Nexus Services in a Worker, often the same Worker as underlying primitives.  
  * Use Nexus Services from a Workflow.  

>   * Same queue-based Worker architecture, for Worker fleet load balancing.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Use the same queue-based Worker architecture, for Worker fleet load balancing.  
```

* Built-in Nexus machinery:
  * Connects Nexus callers and handlers through Nexus Endpoints.  
  * Automatic retries & circuit breaking. 
* Multi-region routing across Namespaces:
  * Secure mTLS connectivity. 
  * Endpoint access control.  
* Observability:

>   * Integrated into Workflow Event History.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Integrated Workflow Event History.  
```

  * Bi-direction linking for end-to-end debugging.  
  * Metrics, traces, and logs. 
* Improved blast radius isolation: 
  * Each team can have it’s own Namespace.  
  * Per-Namespace security & rate limits.  
  * Easier troubleshooting with less noise.

> **Should you be using Temporal Nexus?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Should you be using Temporal Nexus?**

Temporal Nexus provides:
```

* **Modular design** \- Temporal Nexus enables a modular design that helps structure an application for fast growth and supports teams working on their own parts independently. 

> If you want to decouple callers from handlers to enable moving a service to a different Namespace or Task Queue later, Nexus can encapsulate those implementation details to avoid breaking changes and cross-team coordination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you want to decouple callers from handlers to enable moving a service to a different Namespace or Task Queue later, Nexus can encapsulate those implementation details to avoid breaking changes and cross-team coordination.
```

* **Teams working together** \- When there is no clear API contract between teams working in a large monolithic Namespace, it takes work to understand what Workflows can be called from other Workflows – or if a team has signed up to maintain that interface. This places a burden on both teams, and makes changes more difficult. 

> Nexus Services define a clear contract that is suitable for sharing across teams, and cleanly separates the public interface from the internal implementation, providing a more curated experience for service consumers while protecting service authors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Nexus Services define a clear contract that is suitable for sharing across teams, and cleanly separates the public interface from the internal implementation, providing a more curated experience for service consumers while protecting service authors.
```

* **Keeping things separate and secure** \- When all teams operate in the same monolithic Namespace, everything is available to everyone, and mis-behaving workers can trigger rate limits that affect all teams operating in that monolithic Namespace. 

> Temporal Nexus enables service modules to run in arbitrary Namespaces, since all Nexus requests are routed through the Nexus Endpoint to the underlying target Namespace and Task Queue. Running a Nexus Service in its own Namespace allows tighter Namespace permissions and limits the blast radius of misbehaving workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Temporal Nexus enables service modules to run in arbitrary Namespaces, since all Nexus requests are routed through the Nexus Endpoint to the underlying target Namespace and Task Queue. Running a Nexus Service in its own Namespace allows tighter Namespace permissions and limits the blast radius of misbehaving workers.
```

* **Managing interactions across boundaries** \- When no clean boundary exists it is hard to manage concerns like security and rate-limiting. 

> A Nexus Endpoint is an API Proxy or Gateway, that can act as a central point of control for these concerns. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A Nexus Endpoint is an API Proxy or Gateway, that can act as a central point of control for these concerns. 
```

> Temporal Cloud supports built-in rate-limiting and an Endpoint allowlist \- with a roadmap to support finer-grained rate-limiting and access-control policies suitable for external callers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Temporal Cloud supports built-in rate-limiting and an Endpoint allowlist \- with a roadmap to support finer-grained rate-limiting and access-control policies suitable for external callers.
```

* **Adapting as the application grows** \- Temporal Nexus enables a modular application design that can evolve as you grow. 

> From refactoring service implementations, changing an endpoint to point at a different target Namespace, or splitting a Worker out to a different Task Queue, Temporal Nexus enables you to hide these implementation details and provide a curated Nexus Service contract for other teams to use, so you can grow your application faster with less breaking changes, downtime, and cross-team coordination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  From refactoring service implementations, changing an endpoint to point at a different target Namespace, or splitting a Worker out to a different Task Queue, Temporal Nexus enables you to hide these implementation details and provide a curated Nexus Service contract for other teams to use, so you can grow your application faster with less breaking changes, downtime, and cross-team coordination.
```
